[WIP] Docs refresh (#805)
nv-legate/cunumeric: docs/cunumeric/source/user/usage.rst

that is be executed. Any options after the script are passed on to the script.

It is also possible to pass the ``legate`` command line configuration options
using the ``LEGATE_CONFIG`` environment variable:

.. code-block:: sh

  LEGATE_CONFIG="--cpus 2 --gpus 2" legate script.py <script options>

Using standard Python
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It is also possible to run cuNumeric programs using the standard Python
interpreter, with some limitations:

.. code-block:: sh

  LEGATE_CONFIG="--cpus 2 --gpus 2" python script.py <script options>

When running programs with this method, configuration options may only be
passed via the ``LEGATE_CONFIG`` environment variable as shown above.

Additionally, several ``legate`` command line configuration options are not
available when running programs this way. See the output of ``legate --help``
for more details.

Multi-node execution
--------------------

Using ``legate``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Cunumeric programs can be run in parallel by using the ``--nodes`` option to
the ``legate`` driver, followed by the number of nodes to be used.  Whenever
the ``--nodes`` option is used, Legate will be launched using ``mpirun``, even

> with ``--nodes 1``.

Reviewer: I don't think we force "mpirun" anymore, regardless if --nodes is present:

```
~/cunumeric> legate --nodes 1 --verbose a.py

--- Legion Python Configuration ------------------------------------------------

Legate paths:
  legate_dir       : /Users/mpapadakis/legate.core
  legate_build_dir : /Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/_skbuild/macosx--x86_64-3.9/cmake-build
  bind_sh_path     : /Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/bind.sh
  legate_lib_path  : /Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/build/lib

Legion paths:
  legion_bin_path       : /Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/_skbuild/macosx--x86_64-3.9/cmake-build/_deps/legion-build/bin
  legion_lib_path       : /Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/_skbuild/macosx--x86_64-3.9/cmake-build/_deps/legion-build/lib
  realm_defines_h       : /Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/_skbuild/macosx--x86_64-3.9/cmake-build/_deps/legion-build/runtime/realm_defines.h
  legion_defines_h      : /Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/_skbuild/macosx--x86_64-3.9/cmake-build/_deps/legion-build/runtime/legion_defines.h
  legion_spy_py         : /Users/mpapadakis/legion/tools/legion_spy.py
  legion_prof_py        : /Users/mpapadakis/legion/tools/legion_prof.py
  legion_python         : /Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/_skbuild/macosx--x86_64-3.9/cmake-build/_deps/legion-build/bin/legion_python
  legion_module         : /Users/mpapadakis/legion/bindings/python/build/lib
  legion_jupyter_module : /Users/mpapadakis/legion/jupyter_notebook

Versions:
  legate_version : 23.03.00.dev+36.g7e883c5

Command:
  /Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/bind.sh --launcher local -- /Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/_skbuild/macosx--x86_64-3.9/cmake-build/_deps/legion-build/bin/legion_python -ll:py 1 -lg:local 0 -ll:cpu 4 -ll:util 2 -ll:csize 4000 -ll:networks none -level openmp=5 -lg:eager_alloc_percentage 50 -ucx:tls_host '^dc,ud' a.py

Customized Environment:
  DYLD_LIBRARY_PATH=/Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/_skbuild/macosx--x86_64-3.9/cmake-build/_deps/legion-build/lib:/Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/build/lib
  GASNET_MPI_THREAD=MPI_THREAD_MULTIPLE
  LEGATE_MAX_DIM=4
  LEGATE_MAX_FIELDS=256
  NCCL_LAUNCH_MODE=PARALLEL
  PYTHONDONTWRITEBYTECODE=1
  PYTHONPATH=/Users/mpapadakis/legion/bindings/python/build/lib:/Users/mpapadakis/legion/jupyter_notebook:/Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/legate
  REALM_BACKTRACE=1
  REALM_UCP_BOOTSTRAP_PLUGIN=/Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/_skbuild/macosx--x86_64-3.9/cmake-build/_deps/legion-build/lib/realm_ucp_bootstrap_mpi.so
  UCX_CUDA_COPY_MAX_REG_RATIO=1.0
  UCX_IB_RCACHE_PURGE_ON_FORK=n
  UCX_MULTI_LANE_MAX_RATIO=1.0
  UCX_RC_TX_POLL_ALWAYS=y

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

[0 - 10bb70dc0]    0.000271 {4}{threads}: reservation ('CPU proc 1d00000000000003') cannot be satisfied

~/cunumeric> legate --nodes 2 a.py
ERROR: Could not initialize driver, path config and exception follow:

--- Legion Python Configuration ------------------------------------------------

Legate paths:
  legate_dir       : /Users/mpapadakis/legate.core
  legate_build_dir : /Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/_skbuild/macosx--x86_64-3.9/cmake-build
  bind_sh_path     : /Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/bind.sh
  legate_lib_path  : /Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/build/lib

Legion paths:
  legion_bin_path       : /Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/_skbuild/macosx--x86_64-3.9/cmake-build/_deps/legion-build/bin
  legion_lib_path       : /Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/_skbuild/macosx--x86_64-3.9/cmake-build/_deps/legion-build/lib
  realm_defines_h       : /Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/_skbuild/macosx--x86_64-3.9/cmake-build/_deps/legion-build/runtime/realm_defines.h
  legion_defines_h      : /Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/_skbuild/macosx--x86_64-3.9/cmake-build/_deps/legion-build/runtime/legion_defines.h
  legion_spy_py         : /Users/mpapadakis/legion/tools/legion_spy.py
  legion_prof_py        : /Users/mpapadakis/legion/tools/legion_prof.py
  legion_python         : /Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/_skbuild/macosx--x86_64-3.9/cmake-build/_deps/legion-build/bin/legion_python
  legion_module         : /Users/mpapadakis/legion/bindings/python/build/lib
  legion_jupyter_module : /Users/mpapadakis/legion/jupyter_notebook

Versions:
  legate_version : 23.03.00.dev+36.g7e883c5

--------------------------------------------------------------------------------

Traceback (most recent call last):
  File "/Users/mpapadakis/opt/miniconda3/envs/legate/bin/legate", line 33, in <module>
    sys.exit(load_entry_point('legate.core', 'console_scripts', 'legate')())
  File "/Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/legate/driver/__init__.py", line 37, in main
    return _main(argv)
  File "/Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/legate/driver/main.py", line 73, in legate_main
    driver = prepare_driver(argv, LegateDriver)
  File "/Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/legate/driver/main.py", line 54, in prepare_driver
    raise e
  File "/Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/legate/driver/main.py", line 49, in prepare_driver
    driver = driver_type(config, system)
  File "/Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/legate/driver/driver.py", line 68, in __init__
    self.launcher = Launcher.create(config, system)
  File "/Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/legate/driver/launcher.py", line 118, in create
    return SimpleLauncher(config, system)
  File "/Users/mpapadakis/legate.core/legate/driver/launcher.py", line 295, in __init__
    raise RuntimeError(RANK_ERR_MSG)
RuntimeError: Could not detect rank ID on multi-rank run with no --launcher provided. If you
want Legate to use a launcher, e.g. mpirun, internally (recommended), then you
need to specify which one to use by passing --launcher. Otherwise you need to
invoke the legate script itself through a launcher.
```

Author: Legate readme is out of date then

Author: Can you suggest some verbiage and I will update in both places

Reviewer: Yup, this suggestion would work for the README as well I think https://github.com/nv-legate/cunumeric/pull/805#discussion_r1119401744

> Cunumeric programs can be run in parallel by using the ``--nodes`` option to
> the ``legate`` driver, followed by the number of nodes to be used.  Whenever
> the ``--nodes`` option is used, Legate will be launched using ``mpirun``, even
> with ``--nodes 1``.
> 
> .. code-block:: sh
> 
>   legate --nodes 2 script.py <script options>
> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Cunumeric programs can be run in parallel by using the ``--nodes`` option to
the ``legate`` driver, followed by the number of nodes to be used.
When running on 2+ nodes, a task launcher must be specified.
```

Author: https://github.com/nv-legate/cunumeric/pull/805/commits/111bc9affb4f10755b446997fbd2126c738f2ce0

Legate currently supports using ``mpirun``, ``srun``, and ``jsrun`` as task
launchers for multi-node execution via the ``--launcher`` command like
arguments:

.. code-block::

  legate --launcher srun --nodes 2 script.py <script options>

See :ref:`config_multi_node` for more configuration options.

Using a manual task manager
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

.. code-block:: sh

  mpirun -np N legate script.py <script options>

It is also possible to use "standard python" in place of the ``legate`` driver.

Zero code-change patching
-------------------------

> The ``lgpatch`` script in the same location as the ``legate`` executable) can

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The ``lgpatch`` script (in the same location as the ``legate`` executable) can
```

Author: https://github.com/nv-legate/cunumeric/pull/805/commits/111bc9affb4f10755b446997fbd2126c738f2ce0

Usage
=====

Drop-in replacement
-------------------

Using cuNumeric as a replacement for NumPy is easy. Users only need
to replace:

.. code-block:: python

  import numpy as np

with

.. code-block:: python

  import cunumeric as np

Running cuNumeric programs
--------------------------

Using ``legate``
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The preferred way to run cuNumeric programs is with the ``legate`` driver:

.. code-block:: sh

  legate --cpus 2 --gpus 2 script.py <script options>

All ``legate`` command line configuration options must come *before* the script
that is be executed. Any options after the script are passed on to the script.

It is also possible to pass the ``legate`` command line configuration options
using the ``LEGATE_CONFIG`` environment variable:

.. code-block:: sh

  LEGATE_CONFIG="--cpus 2 --gpus 2" legate script.py <script options>

> 

Reviewer: Note here that LEGATE_CONFIG has lower precedence.

Reviewer: Or maybe note that in configuration.rst, and link that page from here ("see configuration.rst for more details on configuration options").

Author: > Note here that LEGATE_CONFIG has lower precedence.

just checking,  you mean lower than command line options?

Reviewer: Right

Author: https://github.com/nv-legate/cunumeric/pull/805/commits/111bc9affb4f10755b446997fbd2126c738f2ce0

Using standard Python
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

It is also possible to run cuNumeric programs using the standard Python
interpreter, with some limitations:

.. code-block:: sh

  LEGATE_CONFIG="--cpus 2 --gpus 2" python script.py <script options>

When running programs with this method, configuration options may only be
passed via the ``LEGATE_CONFIG`` environment variable as shown above.

Additionally, several ``legate`` command line configuration options are not
available when running programs this way. See the output of ``legate --help``
for more details.

> Configuration options

Reviewer: Is this section empty by design?

Author: I moved config to an entire separate chapter, this heading was removed in https://github.com/nv-legate/cunumeric/pull/805/commits/4f1b1f971576178da50a99ef5c28f2711d64a6b2
